Task 1:

1.) Find out 5 five definitions of IOT using online resources.
-The internet of things, or IoT, is a network of interrelated devices that connect and exchange data with other IoT devices and the cloud. IoT devices are typically embedded with technology such as sensors and software and can include mechanical and digital machines and consumer objects.
https://www.techtarget.com/iotagenda/definition/Internet-of-Things-IoT
-Internet of things (IoT) describes devices with sensors, processing ability, software and other technologies that connect and exchange data with other devices and systems over the Internet or other communication networks. The IoT encompasses electronics, communication, and computer science engineering. "Internet of things" has been considered a misnomer because devices do not need to be connected to the public internet; they only need to be connected to a network and be individually addressable.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_of_things
-The Internet of Things (IoT) refers to a network of physical devices, vehicles, appliances, and other physical objects that are embedded with sensors, software, and network connectivity, allowing them to collect and share data.
https://www.ibm.com/think/topics/internet-of-things
-The Internet of Things (IoT) refers to the network of physical objects that are connected to the internet using software, sensors, and other technologies. This enables these "smart" devices to collect and exchange data, facilitating communication and automation. IoT extends beyond computers and smartphones to encompass everyday objects like appliances, vehicles, and even clothing. This interconnectedness allows for remote monitoring, control, and analysis, driving efficiency, convenience, and innovation across various sectors, from smart homes and healthcare to manufacturing and transportation.
https://www.fortinet.com/resources/cyberglossary/iot
-IoT is an advanced automation and analytics system which deals with artificial intelligence, sensor, networking, electronic, cloud messaging etc. to deliver complete systems for the product or services. The system created by IoT has greater transparency, control, and performance.
https://www.javatpoint.com/iot-internet-of-things

2.) Incorporating all 4 basic layers of IoT think about, and write at least 20 examples using online resources.

	·Device Layer- Devices, sensors, and actuators that collect data and control things in the real world would fall under the category of the foundation layer of IoT, being the "device layer."
some examples would include:
1.temperatur sensor
2.light sensor
3.image sensor
4.linear actuator
5.solenoid valves
https://www.renkeer.com/iot-sensors-and-actuators/#elementor-toc__heading-anchor-12

	·Communications Layer- The second layer of IoT transports the data from the device layer to the internet, usually using a gateway which could also include additional processing and often aggregates communications with many other devices. This is where the security happens like authentication, encryption, and malware protection protocols, as well as some processing and decision making could be included in this layer.
some examples would include:
1.MINEW
2.LoRaWAN
3.SIMATIC
4.zigbee protocol
https://webbylab.com/blog/iot-gateways-explained-a-detailed-guide/#:~:text=IoT%20gateways%20are%20often%20proprietary,%2C%20LoRaWAN%2C%20and%20SIMATIC%20IOT.

	·Cloud Ingest, Data Storage and Processing Layer- This layer is used to handle data analysis and pre-processing, either in the cloud or in the gateway. Applications can access the data for edge analytics where real time data is necessary. The data is monitored and managed while the processing is completed.
some examples would include:
1.AWS IoT Core
2.Microsoft Azure IoT Hub
3.Google Cloud IoT Core
4.Apache Kafka
5.AWS Kinesis
6.Azure Stream Analytics

	·Application Layer- This layer is located in the cloud, where the data is used by end-user applications. Once the data is processed in the cloud it's used to monitor system performance, identify problems, and more.
some examples would include:
1.smart home
2.smart cities
3.connect health
4.smart thermostat
5.connected cars
6.smartphone detection
7.water flow monitoring
8.wearables
9.traffic monitoring
10.robots and drones

3.) Find out by 20 IOT usage and explain about them in at least three lines shortly using online
resources.
1.IoT Fleet Tracking from Zubie- This service makes it easy for the customers to track their fleet and is also accessible for consumers to track their deliveries. It uses telematics data to manage fleet and plan routes with always-on GPS. Zubie also keeps an eye on the vehicles health, it can detect engine and battery problems, track maintenance and check fuel levels. It also uses intelligent alerts, reports and dashboards to improve safety and efficiency. It generates detailed reports on the drivers and keeps them accountable. Customers can integrate the GPS tracking into 3rd party apps, home grown systems or big data using API's. It's compatible with most systems so that the dashboards may be customizable to meet any businesses needs. 
https://zubie.com/

2.Audi's Connect System- This service offers a variety of smart features with multiple plans a user can subscribe to after the free trial period ends including, scheduling services from your smartphone, a stolen vehicle locator, an in-vehicle trip planner, remote lock/unlock, vehicle status reports, car finder, static charging location finder, remote charging status on your iPhone through an app, remote climatization, driving data giving you helpful insights on your driving behavior, set boundaries or receive notifications when your audi leaves or accesses specified speeds and you can access your last parked locations through the app or on the dashboard.
 https://www.audi.ca/en/customer-area/audi-connect/audi-connect-all-features/

3.Energy-Saving Appliances From Electrolux- Electrolux has integrated smart technologies into almost all available appliances today. Some of these features would include precise temperature control in cooking appliances or smart sensor technology in refrigerators. This will save money on utility bills while reducing your carbon footprint without sacrificing appliance performance. They offer refrigerators with filtration systems to keep air clean and prevent odor transfer and ensures fresh, clean water and ice. They use alarm systems to alert you to power failures, open doors or sudden changes in temperature to protect the food. Electrolux has washers, dryers and dishwashers with sensors to save time and money in bills.
https://www.oliverdyersappliance.com/blog/advantages-choosing-electrolux-kitchen?srsltid=AfmBOoqP_gvujEAlTn2l6ue0erV17_-zifE8LzYWl-rdJuGYP3guzw-2

4.Tesla’s Connectivity Service- Tesla is constantly updating their vehicles to improve functionality, add features, improve reliability and even add games. Tesla will send you notifications to your smartphone when your car alarm goes off, if you left you car unlocked, or if the charge level is critically low. Tesla offers a Traffic Along Route service that shows you which routes are congested, traffic lights and speed camera icons and the In Trip Progress Bar will show you an overview of the traffic along the entire trip.
https://www.notateslaapp.com/tesla-reference/551/what-is-tesla-premium-connectivity-what-is-included-and-what-is-not-how-much-does-it-cost\

5.IoT Security Systems from Verkada- This company offers everything you need for smart building management and monitoring. They us a centralized IP to connect everything from sensors and door access controllers to smartphones and security cameras. These devices can include sensors that collect environmental data like air quality index, temperature, humidity, particulate matter, volatile organic compounds, motion, noise, smoke and vapour levels. The smart sensors help organizations manage their buildings and provide insights on safety protocols, operational efficiency and the use of physical spaces.
https://info.verkada.com/iot-smart-sensors/

6.John Deere’s Precision Farming Equipment- John Deere has set a goal to connect 1 million more machines this year. They have completely integrated IoT into their business by using sensors to develop an advanced seeding-fertilizer capability facilitated by sophisticated and previse tracking technologies, as well as their automated seeding technology that can plant more than a thousand seeds a second. John Deere also manufactured their first fully self driving tractor in 2023. 
https://www.iotworldtoday.com/transportation-logistics/john-deere-takes-high-tech-farming-to-the-next-level#close-modal

7.Enevo’s Waste Management Sensors- Enevo uses IoT devices like ultrasonic transducers, GPS, and accelerometers to monitor the fill level of waste containers, sending data to a cloud-based platform to predict when bins need emptying. They can also detect events like service or sudden location changes.
https://enevo.com/waste-sensor/


Task 2:

All 30 devices picture you can see in Lecture 2 content:

1.) Identify IOT device.
2.) Explain about them in three lines at least.
3.) Mention it usage.
4.) From where to buy them (Put link to buy that device).

Task 3:

1.) Find protocol for device/hardware that are mentioned in Day – 2 pictures (30) and write at least 3 lines for each protocol found out.